# Blockblast
#### Video Demo:  <[URL HERE](https://youtu.be/PuMohVIm-PE)>
#### Description:
My cs50's final project consists of an implementation of the game blockblast with the library pygame. Basically the game consists in placing tetris pieces in a board until you run out of spaces for placing the pieces, each time you complete a row or a column it gets empty and you get more points. The project has two files, one in which the logic of the game and its components is implemented and in the other the user's interface is created and the game is ran. The blockblast.py file contains three classes, blockblast, Cell, and piece, also it has two lists, one with representations of the figures of the pieces, and the other with the colors of each one. The blockblast represents the game characteristics and implements its logic. It has the attributes height, width, board, screen_width, screen_height, and score. It's methods allow us to create a new board when a new game is started, display the board in the screen, update the score when a new piece is placed or a line is done, and identifies when the user has lost. The cell class represents each independent cell in the board, where each one has its position in the screen, it can be colliding with some piece, it could have some block placed in its position, have a coordinate inside the board, and have some color. It has a method to check if it is colliding with some piece. The it is the class piece which has a shape, that is randomly selected from the list shapes, it has an initial x and y position, checks if it is being dragging or not, has a size of block, can be movable or not, has a list the saves which pieces it is colliding with, has the number of block that conform this piece, and has a random color. This class allow us to draw the pieces in the screen, have a list that gives tells us the positions of each rectangle that conforms a piece, know if the piece is being clicked change its positions when it is being clicked and dragged, place the piece in some part of the board where there is not a piece already placed or where the piece does not overflow the board, and other function that checks if it is placeable. In the runner.py file first it defines the measures of the game screen and creates the game using the blockblast class created in the blockblast.py file. Also it starts an empty array called pieces in which the pieces are stored, the game gives three pieces and when you placed them in the board it gibes you another three. Also it creates a variable called moving_piece which checks if a pieces is being moved by the player, another one called playing, and other one called lost, these two variables helps us to check the state of the game. Then it starts an infinite loop, that begins checking if the players exits the tab, which ends the loop. Also it checks if the player clicks in a piece, and sets the variable moving_piece to the clicked piece and changes the piece attribute dragging to true. Then it checks if the you release the click and if the piece is placeable, otherwise it goes back to its initial position, if its placeable then it place the piece in the board, removes the piece from the list and updates the score from the user, finally it deselects the piece and checks whether the user has lost. Finally it checks if the mouse has moved and updates the position of the piece based on the porision of the mouse.  Then it checks the current position of the mouse, and if the player is not playing then it displays the initial screen of the game, that consists of the title of the game and two button, one for playing and the other for leaving the game. All the graphics in the game were implemented with the library pygame. When a new game is started then it displays a new screen with the board, a button for going back to the menu and the pieces you can place and on the top, a counter for the points that the player has. When the game is lost, when there is no space for placing the pieces, a message appears in the screen saying you lost and it gives the options to the player to go back to the menu or to start a new game.